[shopsys] new class for representing monetary values PHASE 6 (#870)
shopsys/shopsys: docs/introduction/how-to-work-with-money.md

# How to Work with Money

> Money is a very important concept for every e-commerce project.

Author: I'm convinced an article must be there and Grammarly agrees with me:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10008612/53625665-013fb980-3c04-11e9-919b-ffd51e249a06.png)

> Money is a very important concept for every e-commerce project.

Author: I think that the list of advantages and the new General Concept section answer it sufficiently.

> Money is a very important concept for every e-commerce project.

Reviewer: I was just wondering why there is the article `a` in the sentence `... is a very ...`. Nevermind, not important

In Shopsys Framework, all monetary values (*prices, account balances, discount amounts, price limits etc.*) are represented by an instance of [the `Money` class](/packages/framework/src/Component/Money/Money.php).

This approach has several advantages:
- it avoids problems with floating point number calculations and comparisons (see [official PHP documentation](http://php.net/manual/en/language.types.float.php) for details)
- allows easy-to-use interfaces with consistent type-hinting so you can be sure what type of value you should be using
- prevents accidental conversion to unexpected types (which may be problematic eg. when using the `===` operator)
- makes the application design clearer and future changes easier

> **Table of Contents:**

Author: I was afraid it is pretty long and I've found the short index helpful. Originally I was considering a complete index, but it was definitely too long and complicated (especially with the Twig filters).

- [Money class](#money-class)
- [Money in Forms](#money-in-forms)
- [Money in Twig Templates](#money-in-twig-templates)
- [Money in Javascript](#money-in-javascript)
- [Money in Doctrine](#money-in-doctrine)
- [Unit and Functional Tests](#unit-and-functional-tests)
- [Price class](#price-class)

> 

Reviewer: After a short break I think the `scale` concept should be explained at the top of the article. It it a tricky concept and I would appreciate conceptual explanation with examples. Like if you divide 1/3, you have to specify the scale and if you pick 2, the result will be `1.33`. You have to specify scale for money creating and if you create money from 1.494 it has different results for scale 1 - `1.5` and 2 - `1.49`. Also explain here that scale rounds the number and how

> 

Author: The scale might deserve its own section, but I wouldn't want to explain the WHATs and WHYs any further. I think that the introductory section covers it sufficiently in the scope of this PR:

> Money is a very important concept for every e-commerce project. In Shopsys Framework, all monetary values (prices, account balances, discount amounts, price limits etc.) are represented by an instance of the Money class.
>
> This approach has several advantages:
>
> - it avoids problems with floating point number calculations and comparisons (see official PHP documentation for details)
> - allows easy-to-use interfaces with consistent type-hinting so you can be sure what type of value you should be using
> - prevents accidental conversion to unexpected types (which may be problematic eg. when using the === operator)
> - makes the application design clearer and future changes easier

That currency is not included in the value object is explained in "Money class" section:

> It uses a decimal representation of the money amount and it does not contain any reference to the used currency.

I had a hard time explaining the resons in a clear way because in the end, we'd actually like to include it but we could not implement it in the possible timeframe (https://github.com/shopsys/shopsys/issues/745#issuecomment-460635377). We've discussed this with @vitek-rostislav in https://github.com/shopsys/shopsys/pull/870#discussion_r261502306 as well. Do you have any ideas how to explain it without breaking the flow or getting into nitty gritty details?

> 

Reviewer: **Suggestion:**

## Concept

The money concept in SSFW represents and encapsulates money values with decimal part, like `100`, `0.5`, `10.99`, `0.0005`. Money are representation without currency (if you need to pass also information about currency through the system, you need a separated concept).

### Scale
Scale is a precision after decimal part and it is a bit tricky concept.

Imagine you want to represent `1/3`, in float it is actually repsesented as `0.3333333432674407958984375` (because of precision (link)). When you want to work with the `1/3` in terms of money, you have to specify "amount of places after decimal point". So you can create a money from `1/3` in scale of `2` -> `0.33`, or in scale of `8` -> `0.33333334`

 Scale have to be specified during rounding (link), creating from floats (link) or dividing (link).

> 

Author: I've added the section in aa1e1900c

## Money class

`Money` is an immutable [value object](https://codete.com/blog/value-objects/).

> It uses a decimal representation of the money amount and it does not contain any reference to the used currency.

Author: I didn't want to get into it in the documentation, but basically currency and monetary values are different concepts in Shopsys Framework at the moment. Changing that would be pretty hard and there are some technical hurdles in our way, but we want to do it in the future.

I tried explaining that for a bit, it sounded quite confusing so I've just erased it.

You can get the decimal representation as a `string` via the `getAmount` method.

*Note: If in doubt about the results of any method, you can take a look at [its unit tests](/packages/framework/tests/Unit/Component/Money/MoneyTest.php) which contain many examples of the class' behavior.*

### Construction

> `Money` can be constructed directly from integers and numeric strings as they are able to represent decimal numbers precisely: `$tenDollars = Money::create(10)`, `$oneAndHalfEuro = Money::create('1.20')`.

Author: I did want to communicate that $10 may be represented by `Money::create(10)` instead of `Money::create(1000)` (sometimes money is created by the smallest subunit - eg. cents - and I wanted to clear that out with an example).

You're definitely onto something with that `1.5 != 1.2` issue you mention though :smile:

> It may be also constructed from floating point numbers, but the scale (number of decimal places) must be explicitly specified: `Money::createFromFloat($floatFromExternalSource, 2)`.

Reviewer: Please change the example to eg. `Money::createFromFloat(1.88888, 2)` and explain that the `scale` will truncate (or round?) to `1.88` (or `1.89`).

I see that there is explained what is `scale` in the article, but it is after the first usage. Please explain first what is the `scale` and then use it. Or you can explain the `scale` directly under this sentence.

The explanaion of the `scale` should contain more examples and should be also focused on the `concept`, not so much on methods and implementation. I think it could be also useful to separate a section `Scale` because it is pretty tricky concept.

Author: The Scale section might be a good addition to the article.

Zero amount of money can be constructed by calling `Money::zero()`.

### Computation

To compute with monetary values you have to use the object's methods instead of arithmetic operators (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`):

- `Money::add(Money $addend) : Money`
- `Money::subtract(Money $subtrahend) : Money`
- `Money::multiply(int|string $multiplier) : Money`
- `Money::divide(int|string $divisor, int $scale) : Money`

> 

Reviewer: Please explain here that all these operation creates a new object and don't modify the original one. The immutability is not commonly spread knowledge and readers can misunderstand the usage.

Also you can link the `value object` article again here :-)

Author: Added a note 53dca3b68

For addition and subtraction, the other parameter has to be also a `Money` instance.
For multiplication and division, the other parameter has to be an integer or a numeric string (as they are able to represent decimal numbers precisely), not a float.

The scale (number of decimal places) of the result is assigned automatically to all operations except division, keeping the results as precise as possible.
Results of a division may be inexpressible with a finite decimal (eg. 1 / 3 = 0.3333...), so it's up to the user to specify the requested scale.
- scale of the result of `add` and `subtract` is the *maximal scale* of both money values
- scale of the result of `multiply` is the *sum of scales* of both money values
- scale of the result of `divide` must be *explicitly specified*, the last decimal place will be rounded to minimize the error

*Note: The scale of the money amount is always preserved - `getAmount` will use all decimal places of its scale (eg. zero money with scale 6 would return `0.000000`).*

> ### Rounding

Reviewer: Please add 4 examples of rounding here.
* 1.494
* 1.055
* and both with 2 different scales - 1 and 2

Reviewer: scale is really a tricky concept :-/

Author: Do you really think that rounding needs more explanation?

I've added a note with a link to more examples:
```diff
- This behavior is consistent with `PHP_ROUND_HALF_UP` rounding mode.
+ This behavior is consistent with `PHP_ROUND_HALF_UP` rounding mode, which is the default mode for [the `round` function](http://php.net/manual/en/function.round.php).
```

Reviewer: This is better, but there is problem with terms. We are using term `scale`, but in php documentation there is used term `precision`, so it is difficult to understand what do you want to express.
I would really appreciate as same examples as in the php documentation http://php.net/manual/en/function.round.php#refsect1-function.round-examples

Author: I think it's sufficient. I don't want to include that much examples, if you don't mind.

You may use `Money::round(int $scale) : Money` method that rounds the amount of money up to `$scale` decimal places, it rounds 0.5 away from zero (making 1.5 into 2 and -1.5 into -2).
This behavior is consistent with `PHP_ROUND_HALF_UP` rounding mode.

The scale of the result will always be equal to the provided `$scale`.

### Comparing

To compare two monetary values you have to use the object's methods instead of [comparison operators](http://php.net/manual/en/language.operators.comparison.php):

- `Money::equals(Money $other) : bool` instead of `===` and `==`
- `Money::isLessThan(Money $other) : bool` instead of `<`
- `Money::isGreaterThan(Money $other) : bool` instead of `>`
- `Money::isLessThanOrEqualTo(Money $other) : bool` instead of `<=`
- `Money::isGreaterThanOrEqualTo(Money $other) : bool` instead of `>=`
- `Money::compare(Money $other) : int` instead of the Spaceship operator `<=>`

> To compare a value with zero you may use the short-hand methods`isPositive`, `isNegative` or `isZero`.

Reviewer: Maybe a note "beware zero itself is not positive nor negative"

Author: Why?

All methods compare the amounts of both objects counting all decimal places.

## Money in Forms

For the user input of monetary values use the `MoneyType` (see [Symfony docs](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/reference/forms/types/money.html) for details).

```php
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\MoneyType;
use Symfony\Component\Validator\Constraints\NotBlank;

// ...

$orderItemFormBuilder->add('priceWithVat', MoneyType::class, [
    'scale' => 6,
    'constraints' => [
        new NotBlank(['message' => 'Please enter unit price with VAT']),
    ],
]);
```

> The form type is configured with a model data transformer that converts the value into a `Money` object automatically (`\Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Form\Transformers\NumericToMoneyTransformer`).

Reviewer: I think that the `Tranformer` class takes too much space here. Please change it to `NumericToMoneyTransformer` with link to the code.

It would be helpful in my opition to show that the form type really returns the `Money` instance and takes as an input the `Money` instance by an example (but I have no idea how the example should look like :-D).

Author: Addressed in 199b37562

#### NotNegativeMoneyAmount

Validates that the amount of money is greater or equal to zero.

It has only the `message` option specifying the validation error message in case the entered value is negative.

```php
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Form\Constraints\NotNegativeMoneyAmount;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\MoneyType;
use Symfony\Component\Validator\Constraints\NotBlank;

// ...

$priceTableFormBuilder->add($key, MoneyType::class, [
    'scale' => 6,
    'required' => true,
    'invalid_message' => 'Please enter price in correct format (a number with decimal separator)',
    'constraints' => [
        new NotBlank(['message' => 'Please enter price']),
        new NotNegativeMoneyAmount(['message' => 'Price must be greater or equal to zero']),
    ],
]);
```

#### MoneyRange

Similarly to [the Symfony `Range` constraint](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/reference/constraints/Range.html), it validates that the amount of money is between some minimum and maximum.

It has four options:
- `min` specifies the minimum value, has to be an instance of `Money` or `null`
- `max` specifies the maximum value, has to be an instance of `Money` or `null`

> - `minMessage` specifies the validation error message in case the entered value is less than the `min` value

Reviewer: Please clarify these options are optional and they have default value

Author: Addressed in 4664094d0

- `maxMessage` specifies the validation error message in case the entered value is greater than the `max` value

At least one of the `min` and `max` options has to be provided for the constraint to make sense.

```php
use Shopsys\FormTypesBundle\MultidomainType;
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money;
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Form\Constraints\MoneyRange;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\MoneyType;

// ...

$zboziFeedProductFormBuilder->add('cpc', MultidomainType::class, [
    'label' => $this->translator->trans('Maximum price per click'),
    'entry_type' => MoneyType::class,
    'required' => false,

>     'entry_options' => [

Reviewer: I think it would be nice to have here one of `{min/max}Message` to ilustrate where the option belongs

Author: This is an example straight from the actual code. It wouldn't make much sense to specify only one message (as both `min` and `max` are used). I could use an entirely different example to show how to use it (eg. specify only `min` and `minValue`) but I don't see much value.

In my opinion, people are used to the `Range` constraint and the usage is pretty straight-forward.

        'currency' => 'CZK',
        'constraints' => [
            new MoneyRange([
                'min' => Money::create(1),
                'max' => Money::create(500),
            ]),
        ],
    ],
]);
```

## Money in Twig Templates

Instances of the `Money` class cannot be directly converted to strings.
To be able to display a monetary value in a template you should use one of the prepared Twig filters.

These filters can be used only with an instance of `Money`.

> ### moneyFormat

Reviewer: Please move this filter under `price*` filters because it is special - doesn't use currency. And also it is less used than `price*` filters

> ### moneyFormat

Author: Oh, I've missed that, thanks!

> ### moneyFormat

Author: Added in 6926788dd.

> ### moneyFormat

Author: @simara-svatopluk: I've mentioned it first because it's simpler and it might be overlooked when at the end.

> ### moneyFormat

Reviewer: By mentioning it first you are also telling that it is the most important.
`price*` filter are more common. `moneyFormat` filter is used in feeds, for JS. `price*` filters are used for humans. So I think `price*` filters are more important

> ### moneyFormat

Author: Yeah, I think think you're right. Changed in 39cfd6f7a.

Formats the amount of money as a decimal number without any currency symbol.

> Optional parameters can be provided to specify the *number of decimal places* (`null` by default, meaning all), the *decimal point character* (`"."` by default) and the *separator of thousands* (`""` by default).

Author: A list might help here :slightly_smiling_face:

> Optional parameters can be provided to specify the *number of decimal places* (`null` by default, meaning all), the *decimal point character* (`"."` by default) and the *separator of thousands* (`""` by default).

Author: Added in 6926788dd, it looks much better imo.

```twig
{# the "money" variable contains Money::create('1234.5670') #}

{{ money|moneyFormat }}                  {# renders "1234.5670" #}
{{ money|moneyFormat(0) }}               {# renders "1235" #}
{{ money|moneyFormat(2, ',') }}          {# renders "1234,57" #}
{{ money|moneyFormat(null, '.', ',') }}  {# renders "1,234.5670" #}
```

### price

> Filter `price` formats the amount of money in a localized manner.

Reviewer: please add examples into all filters with rendered outputs. As same as you do with `moneyFormat`
It is really helpful for reader to imagine what is going on.

Author: I consider this out of scope of this PR. I've already incuded an example in the text:

> For example, one thousand Czech crowns would be rendered as *"CZK1,000.00"* on an English domain and as *"1 000,00 Kč"* on a Czech one.

There is a lot of price filters and the output depends on global configuration, current domain and whether you are in administration or not.

Reviewer: yep, you mentioned it... but without examples i don't know how to use filters and what will the the output

Author: Due to the dependency on configuration, domain and whatnot I'd rather keep it as-is.,

It uses basic frontend currency on the current domain and the current locale (language) to format it.

For example, one thousand Czech crowns would be rendered as *"CZK1,000.00"* on an English domain and as *"1 000,00 Kč"* on a Czech one.

All `price*` Twig filters use this format.
They usually differ only in the currency and locale they use.

### priceText

Filter `priceText` formats the amount of money in a localized manner, similarly to the `price` filter.

> The only difference is that it outputs the text *"Free"* when zero amount of money is provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only difference is that it outputs the text *"Free"* (or the corresponding translation) when zero amount of money is provided.
```

Author: I've also added a link to the Translations article

Reviewer: I'm sorry but I cannot find the link... In which file is it?

Author: @simara-svatopluk search for "or the corresponding translation"  in https://github.com/shopsys/shopsys/blob/ph-tl-money-6/docs/introduction/how-to-work-with-money.md

Reviewer: great thanks

### priceTextWithCurrencyByCurrencyIdAndLocale

Filter `priceTextWithCurrencyByCurrencyIdAndLocale` can be used to format the amount of money in any currency and locale.
It outputs the text *"Free"* when zero amount of money is provided.

The *currency ID* (`int`) and the *locale* (`string`) must be provided as parameters.

### priceWithCurrency

Filter `priceWithCurrency` can be used to format the amount of money in any currency.
It uses the current locale (the locale of current domain or administration) to format it.

The *currency* (`Currency` entity) must be provided as a parameter.

### priceWithCurrencyAdmin

It works similarly to `priceWithCurrency`, but it uses the default administration currency.

It has no parameters.

### priceWithCurrencyByCurrencyId

> It works similarly to `priceWithCurrency`, but it uses currency ID instead of the `Currency` entity.

Reviewer 2: I think we should create some US for simplification (reduction of the amount of these filters) :thinking:

Reviewer: @PetrHeinz did you create a US? Or an issue?

I'd like to resolve this conversation, but I don't know the output

Author: I've created US-5461 in our internal backlog.

The *currency ID* (`int`) must be provided as a parameter.

### priceWithCurrencyByDomainId

It works similarly to `priceWithCurrency`, but it uses the basic frontend currency of the provided domain.

The *domain ID* (`int`) must be provided as a parameter.

## Money in Javascript

`Money` implements the `JsonSerializable` interface, which means it can be serialized into JSON format with `json_encode` into an object with the following structure:

```json
{
  "amount": "1234.5670"
}
```

This format can be readily used in Javascript when JSON is rendered in Twig:

```twig
{# the "money" variable contains Money::create('1234.5670') #}

<div id="my-money" data-money="{{ money|json_encode }}"/>
```

```js
(function ($) {

    $(document).ready(function () {
        var money = $('#my-money').data('money');

        // Displays "1234.5670"
        alert(money.amount);
    });

})(jQuery);
```

See the native Javascript method [`.toFixed()`](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_tofixed.asp) and the function [`parseFloat()`](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_parsefloat.asp) to see how to convert between decimal strings and numbers.

## Money in Doctrine

> In Shopsys Framework, there is a custom Doctrine type `money` which can be used in similar fashion as `decimal` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use a custom Doctrine type `money` which can be used in similar fashion as `decimal` type.
```

Author: There is no "we" or "us" in this article and I'd like to keep it consistent.

The entity property value will be automatically hydrated to an instance of `Money` if it's configured to use the type:

```php
use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

/**
 * @ORM\Table(name="my_entities")
 * @ORM\Entity
 */
class MyEntity
{
    /**
     * @var \Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money|null
     *

>      * @ORM\Column(type="money", precision=20, scale=6, nullable=true)

Reviewer: The example is quite long and the most important part `type="money"` looses in the context. Please remove class, uses and keep here only the field, so it will be highlighted.
I know it won't be 100% correct, but I prefer simplicity over correctness ;-)

Author: I've removed the `@ORM\Table` in 504fc6b94 which wasn't required. I think it's important to note the alias `use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;` even though it's common in our code and the fact that I'm talking about entities.

Reviewer: see the difference
```php
use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

/**
 * @ORM\Entity
 */
class MyEntity
{
    /**
     * @var \Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money|null
     *
     * @ORM\Column(type="money", precision=20, scale=6, nullable=true)
     */
    protected $price;

    // ...
}
```

```php
// class MyEntity

    /**
     * @var \Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money|null
     *
     * @ORM\Column(type="money", precision=20, scale=6, nullable=true)
     */
    protected $price;
```

shorter (half the length), maybe not so correct, but highlighting the most important part

Author: I think the verbosity is not such a big deal here and I'd like to keep it as it is. It better communicates the concept of the entity class and it explains the `@ORM\Column` annotation.

     */
    protected $price;

    // ...
}
```

> When you want to use a `Money` instance as a parameter in DQL, use the `getAmount` method in your [repository class](/docs/introduction/basics-about-model-architecture.md#repository):

Reviewer 2: I do not want to be a nitpick, however, I would expect this to work automatically provided that `ProductCalculatedPrice::$priceWithVat` is `Money` type :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: We've expected that too, that's why I've included it in the docs. There are possibilities how to do that in Doctrine, but you either have to implement `__toString` in your value object (which we wanted to avoid), or you have to call `
Type::getType('money')->convertToDatabaseValue($money, $platform)`, but that requires having an instance of `\Doctrine\DBAL\Platforms\AbstractPlatform` and is rather complicated...

Setting it as a parameter and getting it out of aggregate functions (such as `MAX()` or `SUM()`) are two issues with Doctrine we run into. Converting it to/from `Money` in a repository is a decent solution though.

Author: Maybe we should document (or at least mention) working with aggregate functions as well...

Author: I've tried to explain it in f446f4082

```php
use Doctrine\ORM\Query\Expr\Join;
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\EntityExtension\QueryBuilder;
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money;
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Model\Pricing\Group\PricingGroup;
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Model\Product\Pricing\ProductCalculatedPrice;

class MyProductFilterRepository
{
    // ...

    /**
     * @param \Doctrine\ORM\QueryBuilder $builder
     * @param \Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money $limit
     * @param \Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Model\Pricing\Group\PricingGroup $group
     */
    protected function filterByMinimalPrice(QueryBuilder $builder, Money $limit, PricingGroup $group)
    {
        $condition = 'pcp.product = p AND pcp.pricingGroup = :group AND pcp.priceWithVat >= :limit';

>         $productsQueryBuilder->join(ProductCalculatedPrice::class, 'pcp', Join::WITH, $condition)

Reviewer: the example is too long. Please use only the `filterByMinimalPrice` method and remove `$groupParameter`.
You can maybe add link to actual usage for correctness

Author: I've already severely shortened the example. Having it shorter may hurt actual understandability in my opinion. I'm not sure in which context it might work without `PricingGroup`.

Would this be better?

```php
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money;

// ...

$priceLimit = Money::create(1000);

/** @var \Doctrine\ORM\QueryBuilder $builder */
$builder->setParameter('priceLimit', $priceLimit->getAmount());
```

Reviewer: much better :+1:

Author: Replaced in 1b497aec1

Example:

```php
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money;
use Tests\FrameworkBundle\Test\IsMoneyEqual;
use Tests\ShopBundle\Test\FunctionalTestCase;

class MyTest extends FunctionalTestCase
{
    // ...

    /**
     * @return array
     */
    public function customerLoyaltyCreditAmountProvider(): array
    {
        return [
            [self::CUSTOMER_ID_WITHOUT_LOYALTY_CREDIT, Money::zero()],
            [self::CUSTOMER_ID_WITH_LOW_LOYALTY_CREDIT, Money::create('12.5')],
            [self::CUSTOMER_ID_WITH_HIGH_LOYALTY_CREDIT, Money::create(1000)],
        ];
    }

    /**
     * @dataProvider customerLoyaltyCreditAmountProvider
     * @param int $customerId
     * @param \Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money $expectedCreditAmount
     */
    public function testCustomerLoyaltyCreditAmount(int $customerId, Money $expectedCreditAmount) {
        $customer = $this->getCustomerFromDatabase($customerId);

        $creditAmount = $this->customerLoyaltyFacade->calculateCreditAmount($customer);

        $this->assertThat($creditAmount, new IsMoneyEqual($expectedCreditAmount));
    }
}
```

## Price class

> `\Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Model\Pricing\Price` is also an immutable [value object](https://codete.com/blog/value-objects/) used in pricing.

Reviewer: Please add link to code

Author: Fixed in 2f053a2a0

It represents a price with and without VAT and is used in many parts of Shopsys Framework.

> Price calculation classes (except `InputPriceCalculation`) output instances of `Price`.

Reviewer: You can maybe remove the sentence... I don't see added value and it also contains an exception that forces me to think about calculators while I should focus on `Price`

Author: Well, it's probably the most important usage, I think the mention is deserved.

Reviewer: Ok, then I would suggest to remove the exception. As I said, it forces me to think about calculators while I should focus on `Price`... the exception interupts flow

Author: That's a fair point, I've removed the specific exception in 96d46fb74

It can be constructed by calling `new Price(Money $priceWithoutVat, Money $priceWithVat)`.
For a zero price, you can use a short-hand method `Price::zero()`.

> The class has three getters:

Reviewer: I don't see the point of explaining the interface. I'm missing something like ".... so you can...." after the method explanation

Author: Fixed in d366d8659

# How to Work with Money

Money is a very important concept for every e-commerce project.
In Shopsys Framework, all monetary values (*prices, account balances, discount amounts, price limits etc.*) are represented by an instance of [the `Money` class](#money-class).

This approach has several advantages:
- it avoids problems with floating point number calculations and comparisons (see [official PHP documentation](http://php.net/manual/en/language.types.float.php) for details)
- allows easy-to-use interfaces with consistent type-hinting so you can be sure what type of value you should be using
- prevents accidental conversion to unexpected types (which may be problematic eg. when using the `===` operator)
- makes the application design clearer and future changes easier

**Table of Contents:**
- [General Concept](#general-concept)
- [Money Class](#money-class)
- [Money in Forms](#money-in-forms)
- [Money in Twig Templates](#money-in-twig-templates)
- [Money in Javascript](#money-in-javascript)
- [Money in Doctrine](#money-in-doctrine)
- [Unit and Functional Tests](#unit-and-functional-tests)
- [Price Class](#price-class)

## General Concept

> The money concept in Shopsys Framework represents and encapsulates monetary values with a decimal part, like `100`, `0.50`, `10.99`, `0.0005`...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The money concept in Shopsys Framework represents and encapsulates monetary values with a decimal part, like `100`, `0.50`, `10.99`, `0.0005`, ...
```

Author: Even though it's up to personal preference, your suggestion is more consistent with current style.

Money is represented without currency.

### Scale
Scale defines the precision of the decimal part and it can be a bit tricky.

> Imagine you want to represent `1/3` (one third) in your application. In a `float`, it would be actually represented as `0.333333333333333314829616256247390992939472198486328125` because of [the floating-point precision](http://php.net/manual/en/language.types.float.php).

Reviewer: Please add a newline after the sentence with `0.33333333333333333....` to visually separate "problem with floats" from "money scale"

Author: Added in ce5370814

When you want to work with one third in terms of money, you have to specify the scale - the number of places after the decimal point that should be taken into account.
So you can create a monetary value from `1/3` in the scale of 2 (`0.33`), or in the scale of 8 (`0.33333333`).
But it will never be exactly one third as it is inexpressible using a finite decimal.

The money concept keeps the computation and comparisons precise up to the defined scale.

> Eg. if you multiply `1/3` with the scale of 4 (`0.3333`) by `3` you'll get `0.9999`, not `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eg. if you have `1/3` with the scale of 4 (`0.3333`) and multiply it by `3` you'll get `0.9999`, not `1`.
```

Author: Nice idea

## Money in Doctrine

In Shopsys Framework, there is a custom Doctrine type `money` which can be used in similar fashion as `decimal` type.
The entity property value will be automatically hydrated to an instance of `Money` if it's configured to use the type:

```php
use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

/**
 * @ORM\Entity
 */
class MyEntity
{
    /**
     * @var \Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money|null
     *
     * @ORM\Column(type="money", precision=20, scale=6, nullable=true)
     */
    protected $price;

    // ...
}
```

### In Parameters

When you want to use a `Money` instance as a parameter in DQL, use the `getAmount` method in your [repository class](/docs/introduction/basics-about-model-architecture.md#repository):

```php
use Shopsys\FrameworkBundle\Component\Money\Money;

// ...

$priceLimit = Money::create(1000);

/** @var \Doctrine\ORM\QueryBuilder $builder */
$builder->setParameter('priceLimit', $priceLimit->getAmount());
```

### In Function Results

> 

Reviewer: I suggest to split the text into 2 parts together with examples (quick suggestion, please review text and usages):

Doctrine hydrates values to an instance of `Money`.
```php
/** @var \Doctrine\ORM\EntityManager $em */
$result = $em->createQuery('SELECT o.totalPriceWithVat FROM ' . Order::class . ' o WHERE o.id = :id')
    ->setParameter('id', 1)
    ->getSingleResult();
// The result is automatically hydrated into Money
$money = $result['totalPriceWithVat'];
```

But once you're working with aggregate functions such as `MIN()`, `MAX()`, `SUM()`, etc., Doctrine have no idea about the type.
When fetching a monetary value from a function, you have to convert the fetched decimal string into a `Money` instance yourself using `Money::create()`:
```php
$result = $em->createQuery('SELECT AVG(o.totalPriceWithVat) AS averagePriceWithVat FROM ' . Order::class . ' o')
    ->getSingleResult();
// The result of a function is a decimal string (eg. '19590.772727272727') and it must be converted manually
$money = Money::create($result['averagePriceWithVat']);
```

Author: I've split it in 4880c8fcf
